Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says that
Israel's forces are one step away from
Victory the Army says it's pulled all
its troops out of Southern Gaza
including the city of Kan yunes but the
military says that a significant force
will continue to operate within the
Hamas run Gaza
Strip the health authority run by Hamas
and Gaza says more than 33,000
Palestinians have been killed since the
War
Began this is can units after months of
bombardment displaced residents have
been rushing back to their homes after
Israel announced most of its troops have
been pulled out of the
area it's a shock a shock what happened
was not small on my way here in the car
I saw the destruction it's
unbearable I'm going to my house and I
know that it is destroyed I'm going to
move the rubble so I can get a shirt
a bit further north in der Al Bala much
needed Aid arrived at schools and
shelters for the first time in two
months the need for everything from food
to medical supplies is urgent according
to a agencies the UN says famine is fast
approaching many children have suffered
from malnutrition as a result of
overcrowding there've been respiratory
and health problems such as hepatitis
all of these things are a result of
overcrowding in the Shel shelter because
a large number of people left their
homes because of the
war a war that has now lasted 6 months
and with no end in
sight Netanyahu has again said there can
be no truce without the release of the
remaining hostages being held by Hamas
addressing his cabinet Netanyahu summed
up what he sees as Israel's
accomplishments in the war let's have a
listen we're marking 6 months of War
today the achievements of the war are
great we've eliminated 19 out of 24
Hamas Battalion including senior
commanders we've killed wounded or
captured a significant number of Hamas
terrorists we've cleared chifa as well
as many other terrorist headquarters
we've destroyed rocket manufacturing
plants War rooms weapons and ammunition
cachets and we continue to
systematically destroy the underground
were a step away from
Victory let's bring in Marina Miron
she's an associate professor at Kings
College London welcome to DW Marina what
do you make of these achievements as
Netanyahu calls them over these past six
months
now good evening Maran um well
netanyahu's um assessment is very
interesting because these are the
metrics by which he judges success
however ever as has been shown in the
past such as during the Vietnam war
so-called counting um enemies casualties
doesn't really provide you real metric
of success of the operation and what
we're seeing right now um with events on
the ground and the fact that one
battalion will be left in the southern
part of
Gaza we see that the two aims um
destroying Hamas was the first one and
releasing the hostages they have still
not been achieved and the question is
how compatible are those two aims with
one
another well you know as you say despite
the fact that the objective of the
Israeli government was the elimination
of Hamas is this at all likely at any
point in the foreseeable
future that will depend on manufacturers
and we're seeing Israel as under a lot
of international pressure right now
especially after the killing of Aid
workers in Gaza um a few days ago so the
UK and the us both voiced a lot of
concerns there are also un Security
Council resolutions on the one hand so
Israel is contingent on external help in
order to continue the fight on the other
hand there are threats um coming from
Lebanon through Hezbollah Iran has
pledged to avenge the death of its um
Generals in Damascus so another front
could open up so Israel is now focused
on Gaza however as we know there are
also crossb attacks taking place meaning
Israel will have to mobilize more
reservists endangering Israel's own
economy and then you have the people who
are demanding the release of hostages
and we don't know how many are alive so
there are a lot of political factors and
external factors which Israel doesn't
control which can determine the course
of the operation because after all
military a military instrument is
subordinate to politics and what
Netanyahu will do and what the ceasefire
the truce talks in Egypt will show will
determine the future course of how this
war will
continue and as we just reported the
Israeli Army says it's pulled out all
its troops out of Southern Gaza what do
you make of
that well from my understanding one
Brigade of about thousand to 2,000
soldiers will still be left in southern
Gaza in order to control the car
Corridor to Northern Gaza the what what
what I make of it essentially is that
Israel might shift to a more localized
strategy meaning that small unit units
will be deployed in order to eliminate
um Hamas cells but you will not have the
same scale of operations as we had
before the the other possibility is of
course that they are waiting out now
regrouping and um hoping that they can
resume the operation in Rafa there there
may be preparations for some sort of
humanitarian Corridor and this time will
of course allow for
humanitarian Aid to reach the southern
part of Gaza but from a purely military
perspective the fact that so many Hamas
operatives have been destroyed doesn't
mean the group has destroyed so this
break means that the group can all also
regroup and
recover which from a military
perspective is not ideal from Israel's
point of view that was Marina Miron a
military analyst and associate professor
at Kings College London thank you so
much for all of your
insights thank you for having
me and in the studio I'm now joined by
DW Middle East analyst shanie rosanes uh
shaie why do you think this is happening
now is it because of us uh uh pressure
um it was very clear that the Americans
did not want to see a ground invasion of
Rafa that's true but if you ask Israelis
officially then though this has nothing
to do with International Community
pressure which we've been seeing
mounting in last week following the
killing of Aid workers in the strip um
it could be that they were just using
the fact that it's a six month
anniversary and trying to make it not
connect otherwise not connected to any
certain events but sort of make it
symbolic but the military has been
winding down down operations in the last
couple of weeks and they've been saying
that they don't have have any need to
leave the soldiers exposed you know once
they are in Gaza and they're not
maneuvering they're not in action um
then they're exposed to maybe uh
targeted um attacks by Hamas militants
they don't want to do that um so for now
I mean and IDF the way they try to sell
it it's always been part of the plan um
it does not mean anything about Rafa
because um any action taken in Rafa will
have to be taken only after the
population has been evicted this is
something the Americans are demanding
Israel has agreed to that and that will
take weeks and weeks uh what does this
withdrawal mean for this ceasefire deal
that never seems to happen but always so
close right yeah that's interesting
question because Israel has always you
know officially tried to to to say that
the only way to get Hamas to get any
concessions and agree to anything on the
on the negotiations about the hostage
deal is through applying military
pressure and a lot of it and this is why
they've been doing in the last 6 months
we've seen over 32,000 Palestinian
casualties due to that pressure
um and so Israel kind of withdrawing its
forces it also means a slow uh
withdrawal of that position of of only
pressure will be the one bringing any
any um breakthrough in the negotiations
it could be connected to the fact that
now we know we know that the talks are
being resumed there's going to be a new
delegations going you know in and out of
Cairo in the next days maybe we're in a
point now uh where most points have
already been agreed on and now what's on
the table has nothing to do with that
it's hard hard to say we really don't
know what's happening between closed
doors uh in those negotiations and talks
I mean it has been six months um how has
the view of I mean I know it's a very
divided country lots of different
opinions but uh how has the country
changed in terms of its perspective on
the conflict well I think there's a slow
understanding that something isn't
working you know Nano kept saying in a
very confident voice again and again
Israel will keep on F fighting until the
complete obliteration of Hamas they're
far from doing that we've seen racket
you know Rockets against Israel this day
from from Gaza you know as if six months
has not happened so it's clear something
isn't working it's clear there need to
be a change but it's also clear there's
going to be a political backlash from
the right uh side of netan who want to
see more action and not less military
action in Gaza and we will see how it
unfolds in the next days tww Middle East
analyst shaie rosanes thank you so much
you're welcome
l